Adds addVirtualImport util and docs (#6)
florian-lefebvre/astro-integration-kit: docs/src/content/docs/utilities/add-virtual-import.mdx

---
title: addVirtualImport
description: Allows adding Vite Virtual Modules easily to access data across your integration.
---

`addVirtualImport` allows you to create modules and store state across your integration. For example:

```ts title="integration/index.ts"
import type { AstroIntegration } from "astro";
import { addVirtualImport } from "astro-integration-kit";

export default function myIntegration(): AstroIntegration {
    return {
        name: "my-integration",
        hooks: {
            "astro:config:setup": ({ updateConfig }) => {
                addVirtualImport({
                    name: 'my-integration/config', // this will now be importable with `virtual:my-integration/config`
                    content: {
                        foo: 'bar',
                    },
                    updateConfig,
                })
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> So to read this config anywhere else in your integration is easy:

Reviewer: May be worth specifying that virtual imports can't be used from within the integration itself

```ts title="my-integration/src/pages/index.astro"
---
import config from 'virtual:my-integration/config',

console.log(config.foo) // 'bar'
---

```

Now you can easily share state across your integration 🎉!

## Creating a `virtual.d.ts`

> In order to get the types for your virtual modules you'll need to manually* declare a virtual module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to get the types for your virtual modules you'll need to manually declare a virtual module.
```

---
title: addVirtualImport
description: Allows adding Vite Virtual Modules easily to access data across your integration.
---

> `addVirtualImport` allows you to create modules and store state across your integration. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`addVirtualImport` allows you to create virtual modules and share data from your integration. For example:
```

Reviewer: Can you also adds a sentence about conventions? I'm thinking about 2 things specifically:
1. If the module is considered internal, follow this pattern: `virtual:${name}`
2. If the module is meant for users' usage, follow this pattern `${integrationName}:${name}`

```ts title="integration/index.ts"
import type { AstroIntegration } from "astro";
import { addVirtualImport } from "astro-integration-kit";

export default function myIntegration(): AstroIntegration {
    return {
        name: "my-integration",
        hooks: {
            "astro:config:setup": ({ updateConfig }) => {
                addVirtualImport({

>                     name: 'virtual:my-integration/config', // this will now be importable with `virtual:my-integration/config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    name: 'virtual:my-integration/config',
```
I don't think the comment is useful anymore

>                     content: `export default ${ JSON.stringify({foo: 'bar'}) }`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    content: `export default ${JSON.stringify({ foo: "bar" })}`,
```

                    updateConfig,
                })
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> So to read this config anywhere else in your integration is easy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now access the config somewhere else, for example inside a page injected by your integration:
```

```ts title="my-integration/src/pages/index.astro"
---

> import config from 'virtual:my-integration/config',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import config from "virtual:my-integration/config";
```

console.log(config.foo) // 'bar'
---
```

> 
> Now you can easily share state across your integration 🎉!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::caution

> Virtual Modules defined with `addVirtualImport` cannot be referenced inside the `astro-integration-kit` integration utils.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual modules defined with `addVirtualImport` cannot be referenced inside your integration code, for example inside `integration/index.ts`. That's because integration code is running before vite injects the virtual imports
```

:::

> ## Creating a `virtual.d.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Typing your virtual module
```

> In order to get the types for your virtual modules you'll need to manually declare a virtual module.
> 
> First create a `virtual.d.ts` file in your integration root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to get the types for your virtual modules while developing your integration, you'll need to manually declare a virtual module. First create a `virtual.d.ts` file in your integration root:
```

> 
> Then you can define your virtual modules as global TypeScript modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```ts title="my-integration/virtual.d.ts"

> declare module 'virtual:astro-integration-kit-playground/config' {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
declare module "virtual:my-integration/config" {
```

    export default { foo: string };
}
```

> Now you'll have perfect typing when importing your virtual modules 👏!

Reviewer: Can you add a note below explaining that those types are not accessible to the end users?

---
title: addVirtualImport

> description: Allows adding Vite Virtual Modules easily to access data across your integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Allows adding Vite virtual modules easily to access data across your integration.
```

---

`addVirtualImport` allows you to create virtual modules and share data from your integration. For example:

```ts title="integration/index.ts"
import type { AstroIntegration } from "astro";
import { addVirtualImport } from "astro-integration-kit";

export default function myIntegration(): AstroIntegration {
    return {
        name: "my-integration",
        hooks: {
            "astro:config:setup": ({ updateConfig }) => {
                addVirtualImport({
                    name: 'virtual:my-integration/config',
                    content: `export default ${ JSON.stringify({ foo: "bar" }) }`,
                    updateConfig,
                })
            }
        }
    }
}
```

:::note

> Whilst you can choose any name for your virtual module, it's a good idea to stick to this convention as much as possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you can choose any name for your virtual module, it's a good idea to stick to this convention as much as possible:
```

> - If the module is an "internal" module, as in it will only be used by you in your integration, then follow this pattern: `virtual:${ integrationName }/${ moduleName }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the module is an "internal" module (ie. only supposed to be used by other parts of your integration), follow this pattern: `virtual:${integrationName}/${moduleName}`
```

> - If you want your module to be used by your end user, in other words someone who will install your integration, follow this pattern: `${ integrationName }/${ moduleName }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you want your module to be used by your end user, in other words someone who will install your integration, follow this pattern: `${integrationName}/${moduleName}`
```
